Update component “tables” (#267)
Zywave/booster: src/_areas/design-system/components/tables.md

---
## Usage

> Used to help users visualize, organize and understand their data to derive insights and take informed action.

Reviewer: A table visualizes and organizes data to help the user derive insights and take an informed action.

![Example of monetary values in cells with vertical column dividers, aligning the $ symbol to the left of the cell.](/images/table-dataalignment-dividers.svg "Example of monetary values in cells with vertical column dividers, aligning the $ symbol to the left of the cell.")

*Example of monetary values in cells with vertical column dividers, aligning the $ symbol to the left of the cell.*

<hr>

## Behavior 

### Table header

The table header can include search, filters, actions, and number of results.

#### Search

When the user needs to find a record in the table, add a search input field.  The search bar is placed on the left side of the table header. 

![Example of a table with search.](/images/table-searching-base.svg "Example of a table with search.")

##### Results

After performing a search, the content rows should reflect the search parameters and the number of results updated.

![Example of a table with search results.](/images/table-searching-results.svg "Example of a table with search results.")

##### No results

If there are no results returned from a search, inform the user with a message.

> 

Reviewer: You could probably reference a link to the Empty states documentation here

![Example of a table with no search results.](/images/table-searching-noresults.svg "Example of a table with no search results.")

#### Actions

##### Table level actions

Actions that directly impact the table, such as "Add", can be located in the table header.

> * Actions in the header are vertically centered and located on the right side of the header area following the 20px padding of the table

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand, "actions in header are vertically centered". I think I'd remove this because the dev specs will show the button being centered vertically within the table header

* The clickable area to trigger sort, is the whole column header. 

### Filtering

Based on the data in the table, the user may be able to add filters to narrow down the data available.

* Unlike other table-level actions, the filter button should be placed directly next to the Search input, 10px apart
* When the filter button is clicked, a modal should open with filter options
* Once filters are selected, they will remain visible in the table header using Tags
* The filters can be removed directly on the tags, which will reload the results in the table automatically 

![Example of a table with filters. ](/images/table-filters.svg "Example of a table with filters. ")

<hr>

## Responsiveness

When on a mobile device (breakpoint ≤480px), the table reduces to cards.

* Each row, and all column data associated with that row, will appear on a single card. 
* Row-level actions will be place below a separator line on the bottom-right of each card
* Each card should be full width to the edge of the screen and have 10px above and below

![Example of a responsive table.](/images/table-mobile.svg "Example of a responsive table.")

<hr>

## Best practices

> 

Reviewer: Idea: Show Do not: Use primary or secondary buttons in table row level action. Do: use link button....etc.

Infinite scrolling is the preferred method of handling tables that contain enough data to require loading a smaller portion of data at one time.

* It is preferred that the scrolling happen on the browser viewport, not the table itself. (However, if the page has more than 1 table in the UI, then the scrolling should happen independently in each table.)

#### Infinite scrolling

* The consumer should determine the number of table rows available to the user initially (Zywave standard starts at 10 rows, but it can be larger).
* As the user scrolls down through the table, an additional set of rows should begin loading when they reach the bottom of the table.
* If the user scrolls back up, the loaded rows should remain and not need to be loaded again.
* Depending on the time necessary to load additional rows, a loading experience may be necessary.

![Example of a table with infinite scrolling.](/images/table-infinitescroll.svg "Example of a table with infinite scrolling.")

#### Standard pagination

When infinite scrolling is not an option, a pager may be used to allow the user to navigate through the table.

* Pagers are located 10px directly below the table

> * The pager should indicate the page the user is currently viewing and provide them with 5 other pages to click on including the last page. This will also give the user an indication of how many pages there are total.

Author: This is confusing to me. We might want to think of how to reword this a bit.

Author: On second thought, I think this can just be pointed to the pager component. 
https://booster.zywave.dev/design-system/components/pagers/?tab=usage

* * This should be a dropdown aligned with the right edge of the table.
  * Typical values are 10, 25, 50, 100.
* When there are 5 or fewer pages, the pager may be simplified to only show the 5 pages and not require the input field to navigate to a specific page.  

#### Minimal pagination

Use the minimal pager when a more simplistic pager is required, such as on mobile devices.

* The minimal pager should show the page number that the user is currently viewing as well as the last page to indicate to the user how many total pages there are.
* Arrows to the left and right allow the user to easily navigate through the pages one at a time.
* The input to the right of the pages allows the user to easily enter the page number they wish to navigate too.

![Example of a table with standard and minimal pagination. ](/images/table-pagination.svg "Example of a table with standard and minimal pagination. ")

#### B﻿est practices

* W﻿hen the user is trying to find something specific,  such as a specific account, a pager is ideal.
* W﻿hen the user is browsing, such as a content search, infinite scroll may be ideal.
* F﻿or mobile, infinite scrolling is ideal.

> * If the user navigates to a page from within the table, then uses breadcrumbs to navigate back, we should try to remember the location.

Author: This section feels a bit redundant. Can we put these details in the sections above?

### Wrapping and truncation

Based on the space available and the amount of data contained within the table, wrapping or truncation may be necessary to display all of the available columns. The data contained within the table should drive the decision on whether to truncate or wrap. 

> ![Example of a table with wrapping and truncation.](/images/table-wrappingandtruncation.svg "Example of a table with wrapping and truncation.")

Author: Can we separate these images and include them in their respective sections below?

> #### Wrapping data

Author: Should these be bullet points? If yes, they don't need a . at the end. 
If no, then include a .

The benefits of wrapping data is that all of the information is visible to the user and it works well with very detailed information such as plan names

The negative of wrapping data is that wrapping on more than two lines can add a lot of height to the rows within a table, which can actually harm readability of some data like numbers

> #### Truncating data

Author: Same question here about bullet points.

> The benefit of truncating data is that it can keep the table compact in terms of height

Author: ```suggestion
The benefit of truncation is that the table height remains compact and all row heights will remain equal. 
```

The negative of wrapping data is that important information may be hidden

#### Things to consider

* When truncating data a tooltip may be used on hover to show the full length
* Wrapping to a certain number of lines before truncating may be appropriate
* Move to a full-width table when many columns start wrapping, but consider how this will behave at different browser sizes

> ### Sorting

Author: Move this into the Types section

![Example of a table with sorting. ](/images/table-sorting.svg "Example of a table with sorting. ")

Allow users to organize rows by a specific category and follow these best practices: 

> * Any column can be ordered alphabetically or numerically by clicking the sort icon next to the column label.

Author: ```suggestion
* Any column can be ordered alphabetically, by date, or numerically by clicking the sort icon next to the column label.
```

> * Whenever a column is selected for sort, sort by that column only.

Author: ```suggestion
* Whenever a column is selected for sort, sort by that column only
* To indicate columns than have been sorted, the ZUI-chevron-up or ZUI-chevron-down icon will be highlighted in blue 
* *Sorting by the column in ascending order is indicated with a ZUI-chevron up*
* *Sorting by the column in descending order is indicated with a ZUI-chevron down*
```

> * To help users sort information, a column can be displayed sorting by default. To indicate which column is sorted by default, place a ZUI-chevron up or ZUI-chevron down icon to the right of the column header’s name. 

Author: ```suggestion
* When helpful, a column can be displayed sorting by default
```

> * *Sorting by the column in ascending order is indicated with a ZUI-chevron up.*

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * *Sorting by the column in descending order is indicated with a ZUI-chevron down.*

Author: ```suggestion

```

> * The clickable area to trigger sort, is the whole column header. 

Author: ```suggestion
* The entire column header is clickable to trigger sorting
```

> ### Filtering

Author: We have multiple different ways to handle filtering. We should cover all of those. 

- Dropdown button (Simple filtering with just a few options)
- Button to open a dialog
- Header filters (again, this is better with only a few options)
- Filter panel

---

> ## Usage

Reviewer: Add a subtitle under the title to match our other components and patterns. 

Ex: Dropdown select Subtitle: Type of form control where a user is presented with a list of options to choose one items from. Usage: A form control used when there are more than 2 options and may require a user to select 1 option.

A Table organizes data visually to help the user derive insights and, when applicable, take an informed action.

![Base image of a table](/images/table-usage.svg "Base image of a table")

<hr>

## Anatomy

![Anatomy of a table](/images/table-anatomy.svg "Anatomy of a table")

Tables always use cards as their container(s).

> * **Table header** (optional): The container that can include search, filters, actions, number of results

Reviewer 2: Good catch. It definitely makes sense. I just made the update.
